JUDY WOODRUFF: Finally
tonight: Linguist Deborah
Tannen has written a new
book on women's friendships,
"You're the Only
One I Can Tell."
And, tonight, she offers
her Humble Opinion on the
new language of liking.
DEBORAH TANNEN, Author, "You're
the Only One I Can Tell:
Inside the Language of Women's
Friendships": For a book about
friendship, I interviewed
over 80 women, ages 9 to 97,
and heard a lot of worry
that people are getting
more self-absorbed,
constantly texting and
posting pictures of trivial
things, like plates of food.
One woman complained: "I
don't care what somebody
had for dinner, all this
stuff out there that
nobody needs to know."
I'm a linguistics professor,
so you might think I would
lament the effects of social
media, especially how
it corrupts language.
But I don't.
I have spent my career studying
the language of everyday
conversation, and I know that
most everyday talk isn't about
information we need to know.
It's about staying connected
to the people we care about.
And that's a need
that social media is
extremely well-suited to.
My students at Georgetown
University have helped me
understand how this works.
They like each other's
pictures to show they're
paying attention, like
nodding and saying
uh-huh when a friend is talking.
And they use tagging to link
their pictures to their friends'
accounts, drawing friends
into their circle.
A student in my class explained
that a photo of bowls of food
and glasses of wine might
seem to scream, look at me
and this cool party I had.
But tagging the friends who
brought the food and drink to
the party was a way to thank
them for helping make the party
a success, and to remind them
of the time they all spent
together.
Surely, selfies are
self-indulgent, you might think.
But the way my students
use them, they aren't,
at least not if they
observe selfie etiquette.
For example, a selfie usually
includes at least one other
person, so the one taking
it isn't really
focusing on herself.
And she shows she doesn't
take herself too seriously by
mugging and adding captions that
are funny or self-deprecating,
or, preferably, both.
I think of social media
as an extension of
the how-was-your-day
conversations that let
you know someone cares
about you, so you feel
less alone in the world.
It's not that I don't
see downsides, but those
are also extensions of
liabilities that have
always been with us.
For example, seeing what your
friends and family are doing
when you're not there can
make you feel
included or left out.
Social media haven't
transformed human relations.
They have intensified them.
While that means ramping up some
of the stresses and frailties
of friendships, it also gives
us new, more immediate, more
creative ways to stay connected
to the people we care about,
who care about us.